POPL25_artifact/README.md, before:

# QuickSub: Efficient Iso-Recursive Subtyping

The artifact accompanying the paper *QuickSub: Efficient Iso-Recursive Subtyping* includes two parts:
1. The mechanized **Coq proof** for the QuickSub system.
2. The **OCaml implementation** for the QuickSub algorithm and evaluations comparing other subtyping algorithms.

## List of Claims

- **Claim 1.** All the theorem statements in Section 3 and 4 of the paper are mechanized and proved in Coq. The proofs will be evaluated in Step 1 and 2 of the evaluation instructions.
- **Claim 2.** In Table 1 and Figure 8 of Section 5, we test the asymptotic performance of QuickSub against other subtyping algorithms and claim that QuickSub *generally performs the best across most scenarios* except for reflexive subtyping cases and *demonstrates a linear complexity*. This will be evaluated in Step 3 of the evaluation instructions.
- **Claim 3.** In Table 2 of Section 5, we evaluate QuickSub on practical record subtyping scenarios and claim that with large widths and moderate depths, QuickSub *outperforms other algorithms*. We further vary the depth and width in Figure 9 to show that QuickSub *scales well* with increasing record sizes and recursive depths. This will be evaluated in Step 3.


## Download, Installation, and Sanity Testing

### Prerequisites

To build and test this artifact, you will need:
- For Coq proofs:
  - **Coq 8.13.1** (install via [OPAM](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Install.html) or from [here](https://github.com/coq/coq/releases/tag/V8.13.1))
  - Metalib Coq library (install from [here](https://github.com/plclub/metalib/releases/tag/coq8.10)) for formalizing the locally nameless representation of variables and binders.
- For OCaml implementation:
  - **OCaml 4.12.0** (install via OPAM)
  - **Dune** build system (install via OPAM)
  - OCaml **Cmdliner** library for command-line interface (install via OPAM)



### Installation Steps (from source)

The following steps will guide you through setting up the artifact from source. Alternatively, we have provided a pre-build version of the artifact in a virtual machine image. Please refer to the next section for instructions on using the VM.


1. **Install OCaml and Coq via Opam:** Please ensure you have [opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Install.html) installed. Then, run the following commands to install OCaml and Coq on a local switch:
   ```bash
   opam switch create quicksub 4.12.0
   eval $(opam env)
   opam pin add coq 8.13.1
   opam install dune cmdliner
   ```

2. **Install Metalib Coq library:** In a suitable directory, clone the Metalib library for Coq 8.10, which is compatible with Coq 8.13.1 and install it to the local switch:
   ```bash
   git clone --depth 1 --branch coq8.10 https://github.com/plclub/metalib.git
   cd metalib/Metalib
   make install
   ```

3. **Building Coq proofs:**
   In the `quicksub_coq/quick_coq` or `quicksub_coq/quick_coq_rcd` directory, run the `make` command to build the proofs.
   ```bash
   cd quicksub_coq/quick_coq
   make
   ```

4. **Building OCaml implementation:**
   In the `quicksub_eval` directory, run the `dune build` command to build the OCaml implementation.
   ```bash
   cd quicksub_eval
   dune build
   ```

5. After the evaluation, you can uninstall the local switch:
   ```bash
   opam switch remove quicksub
   ```


### Sanity Testing

For Coq proofs, by running the `make` command in the `quick_coq` or `quick_coq_rcd` directory, you should see the proofs being built without any errors. The command line output is as follows:
```
coq_makefile -arg '-w -variable-collision,-meta-collision,-require-in-module' -f _CoqProject -o CoqSrc.mk
COQC Rules.v
COQC Infra.v
COQC Variance.v
COQC PosVar.v
COQC LinearRule.v
COQC Transitivity.v
COQC Typesafety.v
```

For the OCaml implementation, by running the `dune build` command in the `quicksub_eval` directory, no output errors should be displayed. To test if the implementation is working correctly, you can run the provided test scripts as described in the evaluation instructions. For example, a quick test (with a small size of type) to generate Table 1 results can be done as follows:
```bash
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table1 --depth1 100 --max-time 1
```


## Evaluation Instructions

### Step 1: Evaluate All Coq Proofs

The proofs for the system are organized into two directories:
- `quick_coq`: Proofs for the main system (Section 3).
- `quick_coq_rcd`: Proofs for the extended system with records (Section 4).


We list the *key definitions* and the *paper-to-proof correspondence*, and describe the differences between the formalization and the paper in the **Additional Information** section below for reference. To evaluate the proofs, run:
```bash
# Main system proofs:
cd quick_coq
make

# Extended system proofs:
cd quick_coq_rcd
make
```

### Step 2: Checking Axioms and Assumptions of Coq Proofs


To verify the axioms that out proofs rely on, you can use `Print Assumptions theorem_name` in Coq, by replacing `theorem_name` with the name of the theorem you want to check in the paper-to-proof table.

For example, by adding `Print Assumptions progress.` to the end of `Typesafety.v` and re-run `make`, you will see:

```coq
COQC Typesafety.v
Axioms:
JMeq_eq : forall (A : Type) (x y : A), x ~= y -> x = y
```

It should be the only axiom that the `progress` theorem relies on, which is introduced by the use of `dependent induction`.

---

To check that no axioms are introduced across the whole proof, you may run `grep -Ir "Axiom" .` under `quicksub_coq`, and nothing should be returned.

To check that all proofs have been completed, you may run `grep -Ir "Admitted\." .` under `quicksub_coq`, and nothing should be returned.

---

Alternatively, you may run `coqchk -R . Top Top.filename -o -silent` under `quick_coq` or `quick_coq_rcd` to check all the axioms we introduced in the proofs.


```
coqchk -R . Top Top.Typesafety -o -silent

CONTEXT SUMMARY
===============

* Theory: Set is predicative
  
* Axioms:
    Metalib.MetatheoryAtom.AtomSetImpl.union_3
    ...
    ...
    ...
    ...
    ...
    Metalib.MetatheoryAtom.AtomSetImpl.singleton
  
* Constants/Inductives relying on type-in-type: <none>
  
* Constants/Inductives relying on unsafe (co)fixpoints: <none>
  
* Inductives whose positivity is assumed: <none>
```


Except those introduced by `Lia` (the `Coq.micromega` series) or `Metalib`, the axioms we introduced from the Coq standard library are:


- `functional_extensionality_dep`
- `proof_irrelevance`
- `eq_rect_eq`
- `JMeq_eq`

These axioms are imported by `Coq.Program.Equality` for the `dependent induction` Coq tactic. The `JMeq_eq` is a corollary of `eq_rect_eq` and `eq_rect_eq` is a corollary of `proof_irrelevance`. They are mainly used for reasoning about equality of locally nameless terms and do not affect our claims.



### Step 3: OCaml Implementation Evaluation

The evaluation covers performance experiments described in Section 5 of the paper. We provide the OCaml implementation for QuickSub and other algorithms being compared in the paper in the `quicksub_eval` directory.

We also prepare several recursive type pattern generators (described in the Appendix of the paper) for testing the performance of the algorithms so that the experiments in Section 5 can be reproduced.

The structure of the OCaml implementation can be found in the **Additional Information** section below.

To evaluate the implementation, run the following commands, which correspond to the experiments described in Section 5 of the paper:

```bash
# Table 1: Time taken for benchmarks with depth 5000 for (1) to (7) and 500 for (8).
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table1

# Figure 8: Comparison of different works across multiple tests
dune exec quicksub_eval -- plot1

# Table 2: Runtime results for subtyping record types (depth = 100, width = 1000).
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table2

# Table 3: Runtime results for different algorithms with varying benchmark sizes.
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table3
```

For quicker testing, the default values for depth and timeout are reduced to finish in a reasonable time. For full-scale tests used in the paper, use the following commands:

```bash
# Full-scale Table 1 benchmark with depth 5000:
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table1 --depth1 5000 --max-time 100

# Full-scale Figure 8 comparison:
dune exec quicksub_eval -- plot1 --depth1 5000 --max-time 100

# Full-scale Table 2 runtime results for record types:
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table2 --depth2 100 --width 1000 --max-time 100

# Full-scale Table 3 benchmark with varying sizes:
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table3 --max-time 100
```


The results will be demonstrated in the terminal, and the claims in the paper can be verified by checking that the data align with the performance trends presented in the paper. 

Note that the overall runtime can vary depending on the machine, and the performance on the virtual machine should be slower than the data presented in the paper. The results in the paper were obtained on a MacBook Pro with a 2 GHz Quad-Core Intel Core i5 processor and 16 GB RAM.


## Additional Information

### Key Definitions in the Paper

| Definition | File | Notation in Paper | Name in Coq
| ----- | ------- | ------ | ------
| Fig. 2. QuickSub subtyping | Rules.v | $\Psi \vdash_{\oplus} A \lessapprox B$ | `Sub` |
| Fig. 3. Weakly positive restriction                                             | PosVar.v | $\alpha \in_{\oplus} A \le B $ | `posvar` |
| Fig. 3. Weakly positive subtyping                                       | Equiv.v | $\Gamma \vdash_p A \le B $ | `sub_amber2` |
| Fig. 4. Typing           | Rules.v | $\Gamma \vdash e : A $ | `typing` |
| Fig. 4. Reduction                                    | Rules.v | $e \hookrightarrow e' $ | `step` |

Note that there are a few differences in the formalization compared to the paper:
- For the subtyping relation, in the paper we use one symbol to $\lessapprox := < | \approx_S$ to indicate both the subtyping result and the equality variable set, while in our formalization we separate them into two parameters in the `Sub` relation, and in the `Lt` case, the equality variable set is empty.
- In the formalization, for the convenience of proof we include the well-formedness condition in base cases of the `Sub` relation, while in the paper (as well as the implementation), we assume the well-formedness condition is satisfied and remove it from the rules.

To justify the two changes above, we formalize another relation, which has the precise correspondence to the paper version of the rules, as  `Sub2` in `AltRules.v`, and prove it to be equivalent to the `Sub` relation (assuming types and environments are well-formed) in `AltRules.v`

The weakly positive restriction and subtyping relations in `quick_coq` are directly adapted from [Zhou et al. 2022]'s [formalization](https://github.com/juda/Iso-Recursive-Subtyping/blob/3ca34c6f0c157ba085d873952d8babdbfe6b0f61/Journal/src/AmberBase.v#L77-L129). In the `quick_coq_rcd` proof we drop the subtyping relation, and extend the weakly positive restriction to consider equivalent types up to record permutation.


### Paper to Proof Table


The paper to proof contains the proofs for the main system presented in Section 3 the paper.


| Theorem | File | Name in Coq |
| ------- | ----- | ----------- |
| Theorem 3.1 Relation to weakly positive restrictions (strict subtyping)                        | PosVar.v | `soundness_posvar` |
| Theorem 3.2(1-2) Relation to weakly positive restrictions (equivalence)                     | PosVar.v | `soundness_posvar` |
| Theorem 3.2(3-4) Relation to weakly positive restrictions (equivalence) | PosVar.v | `posvar_false` |
| Theorem 3.3 Relation to weakly positive restrictions (fresh variables)      | PosVar.v | `soundness_posvar_fresh` |
| Theorem 3.4 Soundness of QuickSub to Weakly Positive Subtyping      | Equiv.v | `pos_esa_sound` |
| Theorem 3.5 QuickSub equivalence implies equality    | Variance.v | `Msub_refl_inv` |
| Theorem 3.6 Completeness of QuickSub                 | Equiv.v | `pos_esa_complete_final` |
| Lemma 3.8 Generalized completeness of QuickSub                   | Equiv.v | `pos_esa_complete` |
| Theorem 3.9 Unfolding lemma (strict subtype)   | Equiv.v | `unfolding_lemma` |
| Theorem 3.9 Unfolding lemma (equality)  | Equiv.v | `unfolding_lemma_eq` |
| Lemma 3.10 Generalized unfolding lemma        | LinearRule.v | `generalized_unfolding_lemma` |
| Theorem 3.11 Reflexivity        | LinearRule.v | `Msub_refl` |
| Theorem 3.12 Transitivity        | Transitivity.v | `trans_aux2` |
| Theorem 3.13 Progress                                         | Progress.v | `progress` |
| Theorem 3.14 Preservation                                     | Preservation.v | `preservation` |

For the system with records, the definitions and proofs can be found in a similar position as the main system.




### Structure of the OCaml Implementation
The OCaml implementation is structured as follows:

```
./quicksub_eval
├── bin
│   ├── dune
│   └── main.ml         # The main function (requires `Cmdliner` library for command line interface)
|
└── lib
    ├── defs.ml         # Common definition of types and utility functions
    |
    ├── amberSub.ml     # The Amber Rules Implementation
    ├── completeSub.ml  # The Ligatti's Complete Subtyping Implementation
    ├── equiSub.ml      # The equi-recurive subtyping implementation
    ├── quickSubExt.ml # The direct implementation QuickSub{} algorithm, which uses functional sets
    ├── quickSubOpt.ml # The slightly optimized QuickSub{} algorithm, which uses imperative boolean arrays for equality variable sets
    ├── nominalSub.ml   # The nominal subtyping implementation
    ├── nominalSub2.ml  # The slightly optimized nominal subtyping implementation that avoids substitution on positive variables
    |
    ├── testGen.ml      # The recursive type pattern generators
    └── tests.ml        # Scripts for testing
```

Commit message:

artifact ready to pack image

POPL25_artifact/README.md, after:

# QuickSub: Efficient Iso-Recursive Subtyping

The artifact accompanying the paper *QuickSub: Efficient Iso-Recursive Subtyping* includes two parts:
1. The mechanized **Coq proof** for the QuickSub system.
2. The **OCaml implementation** for the QuickSub algorithm and evaluations comparing other subtyping algorithms.

## List of Claims

- **Claim 1.** All the theorem statements in Section 3 and 4 of the paper are mechanized and proved in Coq. The proofs will be evaluated in Step 1 and 2 of the evaluation instructions.
- **Claim 2.** In Table 1 and Figure 8 of Section 5, we test the asymptotic performance of QuickSub against other subtyping algorithms and claim that QuickSub *generally performs the best across most scenarios* except for reflexive subtyping cases and *demonstrates a linear complexity*. This will be evaluated in Step 3 of the evaluation instructions.
- **Claim 3.** In Table 2 of Section 5, we evaluate QuickSub on practical record subtyping scenarios and claim that with large widths and moderate depths, QuickSub *outperforms other algorithms*. We further vary the depth and width in Figure 9 to show that QuickSub *scales well* with increasing record sizes and recursive depths. This will be evaluated in Step 3.


## Download, Installation, and Sanity Testing

### Using Virtual Machine Image

We provide a virtual machine image with the artifact pre-installed. The VM image (`ova` file) can be downloaded from the Zenodo files. The VM is based on Ubuntu 20.04 and is tested on VirtualBox 7.1.2 on both new (Apple Chips) and old (Intel) Mac machines.

Open the `ova` image using VirtualBox and use the default settings to import the VM. The VM is configured with 2 CPU cores and 4 GB of RAM. The password for the user `vboxuser` is `changeme`.

The artifact can be found on the desktop of the VM. You can jump to the *Sanity Testing* section to verify the installation. In addition, a `coqide` is pre-installed on the VM. By running `coqide` in the terminal, you can open the Coq proofs and interactively check the proofs.


### Prerequisites

To build and test this artifact, you will need:
- For Coq proofs:
  - **Coq 8.13.1** (install via [OPAM](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Install.html) or from [here](https://github.com/coq/coq/releases/tag/V8.13.1))
  - Metalib Coq library (install from [here](https://github.com/plclub/metalib/releases/tag/coq8.10)) for formalizing the locally nameless representation of variables and binders.
- For OCaml implementation:
  - **OCaml 4.12.0** (install via OPAM)
  - **Dune** build system (install via OPAM)
  - OCaml **Cmdliner** library for command-line interface (install via OPAM)



### Installation Steps (from source)

The following steps will guide you through setting up the artifact from source. Alternatively, we have provided a pre-build version of the artifact in a virtual machine image. Please refer to the next section for instructions on using the VM.


1. **Install OCaml and Coq via Opam:** Please ensure you have [opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Install.html) installed. Then, run the following commands to install OCaml and Coq on a local switch:
   ```bash
   opam switch create quicksub 4.12.0
   eval $(opam env)
   opam pin add coq 8.13.1
   opam install dune cmdliner
   ```

2. **Install Metalib Coq library:** In a suitable directory, clone the Metalib library for Coq 8.10, which is compatible with Coq 8.13.1 and install it to the local switch:
   ```bash
   git clone --depth 1 --branch coq8.10 https://github.com/plclub/metalib.git
   cd metalib/Metalib
   make install
   ```

3. **Building Coq proofs:**
   In the `quicksub_coq/quick_coq` or `quicksub_coq/quick_coq_rcd` directory, run the `make` command to build the proofs.
   ```bash
   cd quicksub_coq/quick_coq
   make
   ```

4. **Building OCaml implementation:**
   In the `quicksub_eval` directory, run the `dune build` command to build the OCaml implementation.
   ```bash
   cd quicksub_eval
   dune build
   ```

5. After the evaluation, you can uninstall the local switch:
   ```bash
   opam switch remove quicksub
   ```


### Sanity Testing

For Coq proofs, by running the `make` command in the `quick_coq` or `quick_coq_rcd` directory, you should see the proofs being built without any errors. The command line output is as follows:
```
coq_makefile -arg '-w -variable-collision,-meta-collision,-require-in-module' -f _CoqProject -o CoqSrc.mk
COQC Rules.v
COQC Infra.v
COQC Variance.v
COQC PosVar.v
COQC LinearRule.v
COQC Transitivity.v
COQC Typesafety.v
```

For the OCaml implementation, by running the `dune build` command in the `quicksub_eval` directory, no output errors should be displayed. To test if the implementation is working correctly, you can run the provided test scripts as described in the evaluation instructions. For example, a quick test (with a small size of type) to generate Table 1 results can be done as follows:
```bash
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table1 --depth1 100 --max-time 1
```


## Evaluation Instructions

### Step 1: Evaluate All Coq Proofs

The proofs for the system are organized into two directories:
- `quick_coq`: Proofs for the main system (Section 3).
- `quick_coq_rcd`: Proofs for the extended system with records (Section 4).


We list the *key definitions* and the *paper-to-proof correspondence*, and describe the differences between the formalization and the paper in the **Additional Information** section below for reference. To evaluate the proofs, run:
```bash
# Main system proofs:
cd quick_coq
make

# Extended system proofs:
cd quick_coq_rcd
make
```

### Step 2: Checking Axioms and Assumptions of Coq Proofs


To verify the axioms that out proofs rely on, you can use `Print Assumptions theorem_name` in Coq, by replacing `theorem_name` with the name of the theorem you want to check in the paper-to-proof table.

For example, by adding `Print Assumptions progress.` to the end of `Typesafety.v` and re-run `make`, you will see:

```coq
COQC Typesafety.v
Axioms:
JMeq_eq : forall (A : Type) (x y : A), x ~= y -> x = y
```

It should be the only axiom that the `progress` theorem relies on, which is introduced by the use of `dependent induction`.

---

To check that no axioms are introduced across the whole proof, you may run `grep -Ir "Axiom" .` under `quicksub_coq`, and nothing should be returned.

To check that all proofs have been completed, you may run `grep -Ir "Admitted\." .` under `quicksub_coq`, and nothing should be returned.

---

Alternatively, you may run `coqchk -R . Top Top.filename -o -silent` under `quick_coq` or `quick_coq_rcd` to check all the axioms we introduced in the proofs.


```
coqchk -R . Top Top.Typesafety -o -silent

CONTEXT SUMMARY
===============

* Theory: Set is predicative
  
* Axioms:
    Metalib.MetatheoryAtom.AtomSetImpl.union_3
    ...
    ...
    ...
    ...
    ...
    Metalib.MetatheoryAtom.AtomSetImpl.singleton
  
* Constants/Inductives relying on type-in-type: <none>
  
* Constants/Inductives relying on unsafe (co)fixpoints: <none>
  
* Inductives whose positivity is assumed: <none>
```


Except those introduced by `Lia` (the `Coq.micromega` series) or `Metalib`, the axioms we introduced from the Coq standard library are:


- `functional_extensionality_dep`
- `proof_irrelevance`
- `eq_rect_eq`
- `JMeq_eq`

These axioms are imported by `Coq.Program.Equality` for the `dependent induction` Coq tactic. The `JMeq_eq` is a corollary of `eq_rect_eq` and `eq_rect_eq` is a corollary of `proof_irrelevance`. They are mainly used for reasoning about equality of locally nameless terms and do not affect our claims.



### Step 3: OCaml Implementation Evaluation

The evaluation covers performance experiments described in Section 5 of the paper. We provide the OCaml implementation for QuickSub and other algorithms being compared in the paper in the `quicksub_eval` directory.

We also prepare several recursive type pattern generators (described in the Appendix of the paper) for testing the performance of the algorithms so that the experiments in Section 5 can be reproduced.

The structure of the OCaml implementation can be found in the **Additional Information** section below.

To evaluate the implementation, run the following commands, which correspond to the experiments described in Section 5 of the paper:

```bash
# Table 1: Time taken for benchmarks with depth 5000 for (1) to (7) and 500 for (8).
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table1

# Figure 8: Comparison of different works across multiple tests
dune exec quicksub_eval -- plot1

# Table 2: Runtime results for subtyping record types (depth = 100, width = 1000).
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table2

# Table 3: Runtime results for different algorithms with varying benchmark sizes.
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table3
```

For quicker testing, the default values for depth and timeout are reduced to finish in a reasonable time. For full-scale tests used in the paper, use the following commands:

```bash
# Full-scale Table 1 benchmark with depth 5000:
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table1 --depth1 5000 --max-time 100

# Full-scale Figure 8 comparison:
dune exec quicksub_eval -- plot1 --depth1 5000 --max-time 100

# Full-scale Table 2 runtime results for record types:
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table2 --depth2 100 --width 1000 --max-time 100

# Full-scale Table 3 benchmark with varying sizes:
dune exec quicksub_eval -- table3 --max-time 100
```


The results will be demonstrated in the terminal, and the claims in the paper can be verified by checking that the data align with the performance trends presented in the paper. 

Note that the overall runtime can vary depending on the machine, and the performance on the virtual machine should be slower than the data presented in the paper. It might be helpful to reduce the preset depth/width of the benchmarks in the virtual machine to avoid timeout or stack overflow, or alternatively, run the evaluation on a local machine for a more accurate comparison. The results in the paper were obtained on a MacBook Pro with a 2 GHz Quad-Core Intel Core i5 processor and 16 GB RAM using the pre-set depth and width values above.


## Additional Information

### Key Definitions in the Paper

| Definition | File | Notation in Paper | Name in Coq
| ----- | ------- | ------ | ------
| Fig. 2. QuickSub subtyping | Rules.v | $\Psi \vdash_{\oplus} A \lessapprox B$ | `Sub` |
| Fig. 3. Weakly positive restriction                                             | PosVar.v | $\alpha \in_{\oplus} A \le B $ | `posvar` |
| Fig. 3. Weakly positive subtyping                                       | Equiv.v | $\Gamma \vdash_p A \le B $ | `sub_amber2` |
| Fig. 4. Typing           | Rules.v | $\Gamma \vdash e : A $ | `typing` |
| Fig. 4. Reduction                                    | Rules.v | $e \hookrightarrow e' $ | `step` |

Note that there are a few differences in the formalization compared to the paper:
- For the subtyping relation, in the paper we use one symbol to $\lessapprox := < | \approx_S$ to indicate both the subtyping result and the equality variable set, while in our formalization we separate them into two parameters in the `Sub` relation, and in the `Lt` case, the equality variable set is empty.
- In the formalization, for the convenience of proof we include the well-formedness condition in base cases of the `Sub` relation, while in the paper (as well as the implementation), we assume the well-formedness condition is satisfied and remove it from the rules.

To justify the two changes above, we formalize another relation, which has the precise correspondence to the paper version of the rules, as  `Sub2` in `AltRules.v`, and prove it to be equivalent to the `Sub` relation (assuming types and environments are well-formed) in `AltRules.v`

The weakly positive restriction and subtyping relations in `quick_coq` are directly adapted from [Zhou et al. 2022]'s [formalization](https://github.com/juda/Iso-Recursive-Subtyping/blob/3ca34c6f0c157ba085d873952d8babdbfe6b0f61/Journal/src/AmberBase.v#L77-L129). In the `quick_coq_rcd` proof we drop the subtyping relation, and extend the weakly positive restriction to consider equivalent types up to record permutation.


### Paper to Proof Table


The paper to proof contains the proofs for the main system presented in Section 3 the paper.


| Theorem | File | Name in Coq |
| ------- | ----- | ----------- |
| Theorem 3.1 Relation to weakly positive restrictions (strict subtyping)                        | PosVar.v | `soundness_posvar` |
| Theorem 3.2(1-2) Relation to weakly positive restrictions (equivalence)                     | PosVar.v | `soundness_posvar` |
| Theorem 3.2(3-4) Relation to weakly positive restrictions (equivalence) | PosVar.v | `posvar_false` |
| Theorem 3.3 Relation to weakly positive restrictions (fresh variables)      | PosVar.v | `soundness_posvar_fresh` |
| Theorem 3.4 Soundness of QuickSub to Weakly Positive Subtyping      | Equiv.v | `pos_esa_sound` |
| Theorem 3.5 QuickSub equivalence implies equality    | Variance.v | `Msub_refl_inv` |
| Theorem 3.6 Completeness of QuickSub                 | Equiv.v | `pos_esa_complete_final` |
| Lemma 3.8 Generalized completeness of QuickSub                   | Equiv.v | `pos_esa_complete` |
| Theorem 3.9 Unfolding lemma (strict subtype)   | Equiv.v | `unfolding_lemma` |
| Theorem 3.9 Unfolding lemma (equality)  | Equiv.v | `unfolding_lemma_eq` |
| Lemma 3.10 Generalized unfolding lemma        | LinearRule.v | `generalized_unfolding_lemma` |
| Theorem 3.11 Reflexivity        | LinearRule.v | `Msub_refl` |
| Theorem 3.12 Transitivity        | Transitivity.v | `trans_aux2` |
| Theorem 3.13 Progress                                         | Progress.v | `progress` |
| Theorem 3.14 Preservation                                     | Preservation.v | `preservation` |

For the system with records, the definitions and proofs can be found in a similar position as the main system.




### Structure of the OCaml Implementation
The OCaml implementation is structured as follows:

```
./quicksub_eval
├── bin
│   ├── dune
│   └── main.ml         # The main function (requires `Cmdliner` library for command line interface)
|
└── lib
    ├── defs.ml         # Common definition of types and utility functions
    |
    ├── amberSub.ml     # The Amber Rules Implementation
    ├── completeSub.ml  # The Ligatti's Complete Subtyping Implementation
    ├── equiSub.ml      # The equi-recurive subtyping implementation
    ├── quickSubExt.ml # The direct implementation QuickSub{} algorithm, which uses functional sets
    ├── quickSubOpt.ml # The slightly optimized QuickSub{} algorithm, which uses imperative boolean arrays for equality variable sets
    ├── nominalSub.ml   # The nominal subtyping implementation
    ├── nominalSub2.ml  # The slightly optimized nominal subtyping implementation that avoids substitution on positive variables
    |
    ├── testGen.ml      # The recursive type pattern generators
    └── tests.ml        # Scripts for testing
```
